Change blueprints to blocks (#213)
etherlinkcom/docs: docs/network/architecture.md

---

Etherlink's main components are its nodes and the sequencer.

> The nodes and sequencer handle blocks in a way that is similar to how Tezos layer 1 handles blocks.

Reviewer: Yes I agree, we shouldn't say that

> The nodes and sequencer handle blocks in a way that is similar to how Tezos layer 1 handles blocks.

Reviewer: Looks good to me

## Sequencer

Etherlink relies on a sequencer to publish transactions.
The sequencer receives transactions from EVM nodes, puts them in order, and packages them into an Etherlink block.

The sequencer generates blocks at a variable rate, depending on demand.
Currently, it generates a block at least every 6 seconds, even if the block is empty.
As demand increases, it generates blocks more quickly, up to a block every 500ms.

> These values can change with Etherlink upgrades.

Reviewer 2: here it's not etherlink kernel upgrade, but the sequencer node upgrade, or even a config to change.
I'm not sure we should state that it can change here ?
Is upgrade only used for upgrade voted by users, or do we introduce node upgrade in the documentation too ?

Author: I'll merge this PR for now and make a note to cover the Etherlink upgrade process. I don't know how much detail we'll want to go into.

## Sequencer

Etherlink relies on a sequencer to publish transactions.
It receives transactions from EVM nodes, puts them in order, and packages them into a block.
These blocks are specific to Etherlink and are separate from Tezos layer blocks.

> These blocks are also called "blueprints."

Reviewer: I would just remove completely and keep
> It receives transactions from EVM nodes, puts them in order, and packages them into a block.
only

> These blocks are also called "blueprints."

Author: I think we need to distinguish Etherlink blocks from Layer 1 blocks here. Maybe this is enough:

> Etherlink relies on a sequencer to publish transactions. The sequencer receives transactions from EVM nodes, puts them in order, and packages them into an Etherlink block.

The sequencer generates blocks on demand.

> It generates a block at least every 6 seconds, even if the block is empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It generates a block at a regular interval, even if the block is empty
```
Nit suggestion, this is not inherent to Etherlink, it's just the current configuration picked by the sequencer. That's my opinion thought, I understand that we would like to document this.

Similarly `500ms` is purely arbitrary and we could pick a very different values if we think it's more efficient.

Author: Updated to: 

> The sequencer generates blocks at a variable rate, depending on demand. Currently, it generates a block at least every 6 seconds, even if the block is empty. As demand increases, it generates blocks more quickly, up to a block every 500ms. These values can change with Etherlink upgrades.

1. A user submits a transaction to an EVM node.
1. The EVM node forwards the transaction to the sequencer.
1. The sequencer puts the transaction in its queue as soon as possible (less than 500ms after receiving it in a nominal scenario).

> 1. The sequencer puts the transaction into a block.

Author: What do you mean by "as soon as it's applicable?" Does that just mean "as soon as it can?" Or is it possible to submit a transaction that is not "applicable" and the EVM node and/or sequencer ignores it?

Changed to:

1. A user submits a transaction to an EVM node.
1. The EVM node forwards the transaction to the sequencer.
1. The sequencer puts the transaction in its pool.
1. The sequencer puts the transaction into a block as soon as possible (less than 500ms after receiving it in a nominal scenario).

> 1. The sequencer puts the transaction into a block.

Author: Based on discussion:

1. A user submits a transaction to an EVM node.
1. The EVM node forwards the transaction to the sequencer when it is valid.
If users submit multiple transactions that depend on each other (that is, they have nonces that are not yet valid), the EVM node stores them until they are valid.
1. The sequencer puts the transaction in its pool.
1. The sequencer puts the transaction into a block as soon as possible (less than 500ms after receiving it in a nominal scenario).
